---
title: How to build an effective security awareness training program?
date: Wed, 31 May 2023 15:39:00 +0000
---
Companies must have a comprehensive security awareness training program for their employees. Cybersecurity threats constantly evolve, and cybercriminals seek to exploit enterprise networks and applications. Therefore it's important to create, scope out, and build a security awareness training program for enterprise employees across the entire company to ensure that the employees are educated on the latest cybersecurity threats and best practices, which will not only help prevent data breaches and cyberattacks but also help create a culture of security within the company.Step 1: Define the ScopeBefore you start building a security awareness training program, you need to define the scope of the program. The scope should include:The target audience: Who will be taking the training? Will it be for all employees or just specific departments?The training objectives: What do you want your employees to learn from the training? Do you want to focus on the basics of cybersecurity, or do you want to cover more advanced topics like social engineering and phishing attacks?The training duration: How long will the training be? Will it be a one-time training session, or will it be an ongoing program?The delivery method: How will the training be delivered? Will it be in-person, online, or a combination of both?The assessment: How will you measure the effectiveness of the training? Will you use quizzes or other checks to test employees' knowledge after the training? What metrics would be vital to determine the effectiveness of the training campaign?Step 2: Content/Training The content of the security awareness training program should be designed to educate employees on the following:Cybersecurity threats: Employees should be aware of the different types of cybersecurity threats, such as phishing attacks, malware, and social engineering.Best practices: Employees should be taught best practices for protecting sensitive information and preventing cyberattacks, including using strong passwords, avoiding public Wi-Fi networks, and keeping software up-to-date.Company policies: Employees should be made aware of company policies around data protection, including handling sensitive data and reporting suspicious activity.Incident response: Employees should know how to respond to a cyberattack or data breach, including who to notify and how to minimize the impact.Various types of training can effectively educate users and raise awareness about security best practices. You can also use real-life examples of cyberattacks to help employees understand the risks and consequences of a cyberattack. Here are some examples:Online training modules: Online training modules can effectively educate employees about cybersecurity threats and best practices. These modules can be accessed from anywhere, allowing employees to learn at their own pace.In-person training sessions: In-person training sessions can be more interactive and engaging, allowing employees to ask questions and get immediate feedback.Simulated phishing attacks: Simulated phishing attacks can help employees recognize and avoid phishing emails, a standard method cybercriminals use to steal sensitive information.Security awareness posters and newsletters: Posting security awareness posters and sending newsletters can be a quick and easy way to remind employees about best practices and keep security in mind.Gamification: Using gamification techniques, such as quizzes or challenges, can make training more engaging and fun, increasing employee participation and retention.A few vendors that provide effective security awareness training: KnowBe4Ninjio SecurityArctic WolfHook SecurityMimecastStep 3: Deliver the TrainingThe delivery method for your security awareness training program will depend on the scope of the program and the target audience. An online training program may be the most efficient and cost-effective delivery method if you have many employees. Online training can also be customized to the needs of individual employees, allowing them to learn at their own pace.If you have a smaller number of employees or you want to deliver the training in person, you can use training modules or in-person training sessions. In-person training sessions/webinars can be more interactive, allowing employees to ask questions and get real-time feedback.Online training can be a very effective way to deliver security awareness training to employees, especially in large organizations with distributed workforces. Here are some tips for making online training more effective:Keep it short and engaging: Online training modules should be short & concise, with engaging content to keep employees interested and focused. The length of the video should also be kept short, ideally no longer than 10-15 minutes, to prevent employees from losing interest.Provide real-world examples: Use real-world examples of security breaches and their consequences to make the training more relevant and relatable.Include best practices: Provide clear, actionable guidance on best practices, such as password management and safe browsing.Personalize the training: Tailor the movement to the specific needs of different employee groups, such as sales teams, HR departments, or IT staff.Step 4: Assess the EffectivenessAfter delivering the training, assessing the program's effectiveness is essential and can be done through quizzes, surveys, or other assessments that test employees' knowledge of cybersecurity threats and best practices. You can also monitor employee behavior to see if they implement best practices and follow company policies. Suppose the assessment shows employees are not retaining the information or following best practices, you may need to revise the content of the program or deliver the training in a different format.ConclusionA comprehensive security awareness training program is essential for protecting enterprise networks from cyberattacks. By defining the program's scope, creating compelling content, delivering the training, and assessing its effectiveness, companies can ensure that their employees are educated on the latest cybersecurity threats and best practices, which will not only help prevent data breaches and cyberattacks but also help create a culture of security within the company. It is important to note that security awareness training should not be a one-time occurrence but an ongoing process. Cybersecurity threats are constantly evolving, and new threats are always emerging. Therefore, companies should regularly review and update their training programs to ensure employees know the latest threats and best practices.