---
title: Top 10 New Upcoming Technology Trends
date: Mon, 26 Jul 2021 12:30:00 +0000
---
Top 10 New Technology trendsThe top 10 techs you should keep a note of in 2021.Artificial Intelligence & Machine LearningEdge ComputingCybersecurityBlockchain5GQuantum ComputingVirtual Reality & Augmented RealityInternet of Things (IoT)Robotic Process Automation (RPA)Distributed CloudArtificial Intelligence (A.I.) & Machine Learning A.I. has received much buzz over the years. The A.I. market is predicted to grow to a whopping 190 billion USD industry by 2025. The industry has received such recognition that its effects on how we work, live, and play is notable. A.I. offers tools to enhance navigation apps, personal assistants, speech recognition, ride-sharing, and more. A.I.’s functionalities can be further used to allow insights by examining underlying connections. Other than this, it can be used to make sound decisions about resource utilization for hospitals and businesses. To examine real-time data and predict changes in customer behavior, and personalizing the user experience. Machine Learning is a subset of A.I. that is generating many opportunities for skillful professionals across multiple industries. As per a prediction made by Forrester AI, machine learning and automation would value 9% of new jobs in the U.S. by 2025. Edge ComputingCloud computing, a tech trend that grew mainstream with high-tech players such as AWS (Amazon Web Services), Google Cloud, and Microsoft Azure. Nevertheless, since the arrival of Edge, it is no longer deemed an emerging tech trend. The tech industry has realized certain obvious shortcomings of cloud computing. Edge is being designed to offer a solution to the lag caused by cloud computing in collecting data to a data center for processing. The best use of edge computing can be done remotely to process time-sensitive data with no or poor connectivity to a centralized location. Edge computing will act as mini data centers in such situations. With edge computing, there will be an increment in the Internet of Things (IoT) devices. The worldwide edge computing market is to reach approximately 6.72 billion USD by 2022.Cyber SecurityYou might think why Cyber Security has made this list when it has been around for a while now. The reason is that it has been developing at an accelerated pace now. As the Internet offers a user with new threats constantly, ethical hackers need to enhance their knowledge to prevent confidential data from being stolen. The malicious actors will try their best to get their way through our most stringent security measures. However, if the bad guys do not give up, why should we? Another reason is that new tech additions are highly focusing on ways to heighten security. As long as we have to fight this battle against hackers, Cyber Security will be a trending tech. The need for cybersecurity is so high that 6 trillion USD will be spent on the same on a global scale by 2021. BlockchainMost people think Blockchain is related to Bitcoin. This is true, but the tech also offers many other benefits. To understand Blockchain in the purest of forms, it is data that one can add to but cannot change or take away. Therefore, it contains the word chain because it forms a data chain. The USP of this tech is the previous unalterable blocks, which makes it more secure. One of the other specialties of Blockchain is that no one can control the data as it is consensus-driven. With this tech, you do not need to validate or manage transactions using trusted third-party services.5GThe Internet has offered us many benefits. All the services we use today are because of the Internet. Nevertheless, it is mainly due to the 3G and 4G services that we can use data-driven services to enhance bandwidths to browse our preferred video on YouTube or listen to our favorite song on Spotify. However, the game is going to get more prominent with the introduction of 5G services. 5G will facilitate services based on V.R. & A.R. It will also add speed to using cloud-dependent gaming services such as NVidia, GeForce, Google Stadia, and more. The tech can enhance security and traffic management by implementing H.D. cameras, ease factories with smart retail and grid control. Every prominent name in the telecom industry, such as Apple, Verizon, Tmobile, Nokia Corp, Qualcomm, and more, is heavily bought in developing 5g applications. Quantum ComputingQuantum computing is a tech that utilizes quantum phenomena like entanglement and superposition to measure data. Using this, a tech company can efficiently monitor, analyze, and act on particular data. It has proved to be remarkably useful in preventing the spread of coronavirus. Quantum computing also extends exceptional services in the domain of finance and banking. It can be widely used for fraud detection, high-frequency trading, and handling credit risks.Notable companies such as Honeywell, Microsoft, AWS, Splunk, and Google are now making innovations in Quantum Computing. The individual purpose behind the same is that these computers are several times faster than conventional computers.Virtual Reality (V.R.) and Augmented Reality (A.R.)Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality are prominent tech trends that have helped many industries to improve their service or product offering. The distinction between the two is that V.R. engages the user in its stimulating environment while A.R. sums certain things to their current environment. We can see that V.R and A.R are being used often as crucial to the gaming industry. It is highly used in real estate companies and by companies like LensKart to enhance their product presentation methods. It is also used to train the U.S. Navy, Army, and Coast Guard Ship Captains as simulation software. You can expect this tech to blend further convenience into our life in 2021. A.R. and V.R. can work colluding with other techs that we have discussed in this list. It can be used to offer a higher profound knowledge, train doctors for surgeries, improve marketing campaigns and theme parks. You can hire A.R. developers to design convenient business-specific solutions for your customers.A solid 14 million V.R. and A.R. devices were sold in 2019. Furthermore, as per future forecasts, the A.R. and V.R. market will grow to 209 billion USD by 2022.Internet of Things (IoT)As you might be aware, today, many “things” or “devices” are being created with built-in wifi technology. You can see it being applied to cars, home appliances like TV, A.C.s, refrigerators, and more. It is being done to help them connect with the Internet and to each other. The Internet of things solutions offers futuristic ideas to connect tech and data to encourage its practical use. IoT development companies are toiling hard to offer us solutions that can improve our everyday life. For example, we can track our fitness with our smartwatches, lock our doors using home automation tools, preheat our ovens, or start our A.C.s on our way back from our office. Businesses have many gains from IoT. As relevant data from machines is analyzed and processed, IoT can help improve efficiency, safety, and decision-making for companies. In addition to this, it can enhance customer service, present predictive maintenance, boost medical care, and offer other benefits that we cannot hitherto imagine. Robotic Process Automation (RPA)Speaking of automation jobs, like A.I. and Machine Learning, Robotics Process Automation (RPA) is another forthcoming tech you should look out for. RPA can automate business processes such as responding to emails, distributing data, processing transactions, and interpreting applications. RPA is skilled in automating repetitive tasks that one frequently does. As per Forrester’s research, RPA automation will affect approximately 9% of global workers or 230 million or more knowledge workers.Distributed CloudDistributed Cloud will take cloud computing to another level—the services provided to the distribution of public cloud services to remote geographical locations. The operations, updates, and other relevant services will be administered centrally by the original cloud provider. It will offer added advantages to organizations, such as minimizing data loss risk, cost reduction, and reducing latency—many techs requiring massive data processing in real-time such as IoT and A.I. will have an enumerated service.