---
title: What is Dogecoin?
date: Mon, 17 May 2021 12:30:00 +0000
---
Dogecoin (DOGE) is considered more of a meme than a severe cryptocurrency. It was created in 2013 from a Litecoin fork and owed its origin to a popular internet meme known as "Doge." Software engineers Billy Marcus and Jackson Palmer created Dogecoin in late 2013The meme feature a cartoon representation of a Shiba Inu, the Japanese dog breed with scattered text displayed in Comic Sans font and deliberately written in broken English. The text (written in the dog's voice) commonly includes pseudo-phrases such as "such wow," "very scare," and "so amaze."Dogecoin is a cryptocurrency, like Bitcoin or Ethereum, although it's a diverse creature than either of these prevalent coins. Dogecoin was created to poke fun at Bitcoin but, in early 2021, gained mass status in Reddit's WallStreetBets message board. Today, Dogecoin is not a joke anymore, having exploded in value and earned more than 5000% in 2021. Dogecoin is vigorously impacted by the back and forth movement of social media. In particular, DOGE has gotten Twitter whoops from big names. For instance, Elon Musk playfully acknowledged an arrangement as the CEO of Dogecoin due to a public survey on Twitter. At that point in July 2020, a social media campaign on TikTok called millions of users to buy DOGE tokens to push the price of DOGE to $1. While the push missed its mark regarding its expressed benchmark, it figured out how to build the cost of DOGE by over 600%. Whereas a bit of interest, this occasion highlights the control that social media can hold in pulling in more extensive crypto adoption.So how does (DOGE) cryptocurrency work?Dogecoin is a cryptocurrency that runs on blockchain technology, similar to Bitcoin and Ethereum. Blockchain is a dispersed, secure advanced record that stores all exchanges made employing a decentralized computerized currency. The structure of Dogecoin is built on top of the Litecoin blockchain and is a scrypt-based cryptocurrency. Scrypt is the mining algorithm utilized within the Litecoin convention. It varies from the SHA-256 mining algorithm used inside the Bitcoin convention. Be that as it may, like Bitcoin's SHA-256, it too works inside a Proof-of-Work (PoW) agreement strategy (consensus model) for mining and approving new blocks on the network. Dogecoins may be utilized for payments and buys, but it's not a compelling store of esteem that makes it an inflationary coin, meaning that there's no constraint to how numerous DOGE coins can be mined. It highlights a block time of one minute, which contributes to its eminent market capitalization, which inspires a need for continuous Dogecoin specialized improvements. The blockchain rewards miners for their work by creating millions of new Dogecoins every day, making it very challenging for speculative price gains in Dogecoin to hold up over time. In truth, Dogecoin has not gotten a critical upgrade since 2015.When compared to Bitcoin, Dogecoin incorporates a few critical contrasts. To begin with, it's faster and simpler for miners to complete the mathematical equations that complete and record transactions on the transactions, which makes Dogecoin, to some degree, more effective and efficient for processing payments. Another critical distinction is the shortfall of any lifetime cap on the quantity of Dogecoins that can be made. There is a lifetime cap of 21 million Bitcoin that restricts the most extreme conceivable number of coins that can be made. This implies that miners are compelled to work more diligently and for longer timespans to procure new Bitcoin. To some extent, it helps ensure Bitcoin's capacity to hold and develop its worth over the long run.As distant as most altcoins go, there is a competitive edge over their forerunner. Bitcoin is usually some unique structural advantage (most commonly of a technical nature) in a zone where Bitcoin includes a seen impediment. Most altcoins regularly only gain footing nearby particularly invaluable use cases, typically not the case with Dogecoin. Its momentum and value are driven by an interior joke on the web, making it an atypical cryptocurrency. Proceeding to oppose chances, Dogecoin, by one way or another, figured out how to accomplish a billion-dollar market cap without a whitepaper or any feasible use cases, establishing its parodical status in the cryptocurrency community.References: DogeCoin An Introduction to Dogecoin, The Meme Cryptocurrency